as soon as the earth is cut in half
almost all living creatures will come to
an
end an apocalypse will begin which has
not been shown in movies
the atmosphere is damaged the magnetic
field will change
and the planet's landscape completely
alters
but the planet will be completely
renewed and life
like a phoenix will be reborn from the
ashes
a super powerful laser would be needed
to separate the planet
such a laser has to receive energy
directly from the sun
the weapon goes into space on a rocket
thousands of miles above our world
then once the laser arrives at its
destination
it opens wide to expose plates of solar
panels
the laser absorbs and concentrates the
sun's rays
then a powerful energy beam with the
diameter of several cities
shoots into the middle of the planet
oceans through which the beam passes
boil and evaporate from the high
temperature these vapors turn into a
vast thunder cloud in the sky
a strong wind drives these clouds over
the continents
heavy rainfalls which floods not only
cities
but entire countries as the tectonic
plates shift
tsunamis are created huge waves crash
onto the shore
the earth is split in two
and this is just the beginning
the structure of the earth or rather
each half of it
is changing strong earthquakes occur
all over the world the worst disasters
happen near the fault line
billions of tons of ground are smashed
massive landslides drag entire cities
below
chunks of land thousands of miles in
size
shoot away from our planet all living
creatures on these pieces of land
fly into outer space other broken pieces
of the planet
land on the half that is closest to them
imagine a huge rock the size of a whole
city falling from the sky and there will
be hundreds
or thousands of such stones those who
live far from the cut site
have a chance to survive but even there
earthquakes will destroy houses
the moon will also start to throw off
pieces from itself
these pieces like a meteor shower will
fall
onto the earth halves and create massive
explosions
these explosions will create fires the
skies will be covered with ash
and until it settles we won't be able to
see the sun
both parts of the planet are drifting
away from each other
the red-hot heart of our earth is right
in the center between the two
this is the earth's core consisting of
molten metals
each half of the core exudes energy
comparable to a star
between the two parts of the planet a
layer of such hot space
is created that nothing can survive
there
any item that falls into this space
immediately turns into ashes
the mass of the core is much larger than
the ground mass
so there's a higher level of gravity the
core
sucks in everything that comes close you
can't travel from one part of the earth
to the
other the core's gravity attracts any
shuttle
each half of the earth now lives on its
own
typically the core inside our planet
rotates and creates the earth's magnetic
field
this field is a shield that protects us
from the sun and space
if the shield is damaged solar and
cosmic radiation
passes through the atmosphere because
the core is divided into two parts
the earth's magnetic field becomes
unstable
power outages begin in both parts of the
planet
microwaves tvs kettles traffic lights
computers
everything is broken the screen of your
laptop or phone
starts turning on and off the video may
freeze
and the battery runs out and charges in
one second
satellites stop working which means
there will be no more gps
high frequency radio waves used for
communication stop working
which means you can't make calls and
send texts
in fact all power plants may sink
underground
or be flooded because of the earthquakes
so there might not be electricity at all
some people are sensitive to solar
storms and experience
severe headaches when the magnetic field
is damaged
the surviving people and animals will
suffer from severe migraines
scientists will have to invent special
helmets to protect people from the sun
for full protection people will have to
live in underground cities
compass needles no longer point north
they just spin in different directions
the birds go mad they don't know where
to fly to wait out the winter
because the south no longer exists for
them
all animals stop migrating in the sky
planes can't navigate plants and flowers
can't grow naturally
thanks to the increased radiation from
the sun
livestock are poorly fed the quality of
products deteriorates
there's famine the main goal for people
on each half of the planet
is survival in some places
closer to the fault the earth's
atmosphere is completely damaged
the conditions there will be similar to
those in space
there is no air or heat only in a
spacesuit
can you stay in this territory
unfortunately
you won't be able to jump and fly
because gravity still works
besides it's gravity that becomes the
salvation of our planet
both parts of the earth won't fly away
from each other
because of the force of gravity instead
they will rotate
and start to attract each other in a
hundred thousand years
both parts of the planet will reconnect
once more
and the earth will be completely renewed
since the core
is molten metal it will return to a
single heart
but it will take much longer to connect
the solid rock of the halves
a scar forms along the entire fault the
scar will be overgrown with forests
and flooded with oceans but there will
be strong earthquakes in some places
near this scar
by this time all living things have
probably disappeared
on our planet conditions are about the
same as 4.5 billion years ago
seas and oceans boil lightning strikes
everywhere
tectonic plates change their shape and
lava flows from volcanoes in a rapid
stream
the earth looks like a vast boiling pot
inside which life is gradually created
because the earth has decreased in size
and the core hasn't changed much
the gravity will be different on land it
will be more difficult for an ordinary
person to walk
they will weigh much more in such
conditions
new previously unknown life will be
created
today the world's atmosphere and oceans
are polluted
the population is increasing and
glaciers are melting
in the future things could be much worse
for our planet
in a thousand years when humanity has
mastered space travel
we may decide to change our residence
we'll start looking for other earth-like
planets and
maybe we'll find something however
nothing compares to our first home
and humanity decides to cure it perhaps
we'll come up with the idea to divide
the planet in half
and live on one side and after a hundred
thousand years
we can come back to a new healthy home
what if you divide other planets since
they don't have a magnetic field
they won't be as affected for example
venus and mars
have no seas oceans or lakes
some scientists think they're entirely
dried up because the magnetic field
has disappeared there this led to the
complete destruction of the atmospheres
of these planets
the solar wind blew across their surface
with such force
that it dried up all the liquid the
earth's atmosphere
reflects this wind so thankfully we're
safe there would be no significant
cataclysms on other planets
except for earthquakes like earth the
two parts of each world
would simply rotate until they reconnect
once more